Bicycle Ipsum:
https://cogdog.github.io/bicycle-ipsum/#cc

The area can be accessed from the end of Densmore's Lane, the end of Old Petty Harbour Road and from Huntingdale Drive. A super fun freeride trail starting with the Pinkbike drop, an impressive 12' by 12' drop followed non stop features with lots of speed and perfect flow. On the bike map it is often combined as the Whole Enchilada with Porcupine Rim, Kokopelli, Hazard County and Burro Pass. The ending is real rutted out, so be careful not to lock up your tire and make it worse. A long, long, did I mention long? Fire road that circles Mauna Kea. Mostly dry with some small mud puddles. The bottom portion of the trail is fast, loose and tight. This trail is known for its flow. Amazing views of Castle valley are afforded after 50 meters of riding. Big downed tree near the end of Lower Black.

If you continue, the trail ends at one of the lakes and continues lakeside until reaching the point where you began the trail The lake-side bit is fairly technical and very fun. The trail finishes in switchbacks coming down the mountain with some good berms. The ending is real rutted out, so be careful not to lock up your tire and make it worse. This line is my preferred line coming down. After a very quick downhill out of the gate, the route climbs up through big forest. From Lake Imaging Road it is a steady but not steep climb to the high point just before the intersection with Hooker Creek Trail. Small tree down between bottom of trail and bridge crossing. The climb to the top ends with a beautiful vista of Twin Lakes and the surrounding area. The climb up from Marlette Lake trail is pretty tough, but relatively short. The turns are all smooth berms and easy to ride and not wash out.

Trail contains a rope-suspended ladder bridge, elevated bridges and a long-straight skinny. I discovered this trail while out with my friend one day. Hymasa is a bit easier, so if you are unsure of your skill, start there, and then climb back up Hymasa to do Captain Ahab. The start of the dirt road is marked on the Google Map directions on this page. You'll need somebody to drop you off at the start and pick you up at the end. The trails all run parallel to the Fountain Place paved road so they can be shuttled by car. Just a few very small snow patches left on the connector to 38 Special. The trail ends with some nice berms at the bottom. High elevation trails are clear May-October, bring plenty of water. This trail has big sized jumps in it, very fast and dry!

Unpacked snow and mud throughout. Technical features are speed and lots of loose rock in between sections of high speed red clay. The objectives of this project are to promote mountain biking by creating a progressive trail that can be enjoyed by riders of all ages and ability level, and to increase the diversity of riding opportunities, demonstrate innovative and sustainable trail building design and techniques, and provide a model for other land managers for similar types of projects. It is not hard to get to and is very fun to ride. By the end of the 45-50 miles you'll be plenty tired from the constant up and down nature of Mana Road. This trail can be ridden as a loop, or could be ridden as an out-in-back. This is a fun flowy trail! Built specifically for mountain bikes, a flow trail emphasizes speed and rhythm, featuring berms, rollers, jumps and other features that are designed in a way that uses the rider’s momentum to minimize pedaling and braking (think downhill pump track). It is not hard to get to and is very fun to ride. A trail & parking area reconstruction project completed in July '17.

Lots of branches. This is a bi-directional trail but most riders ride from the parking lot towards Pleasant Hill Road. So be careful with your carbon frames! Kitsuma is a point to point singletrack trail that has a machine groomed tread in most parts. Logs embedded in the trail have been installed to signal technical terrain. From there the trail stretches out and travels pretty fast into a big berm with a view out into the valley. After a very quick downhill out of the gate, the route climbs up through big forest. The final chute has a perfect natural double jump in it to give the extra bit of gnar to make you feel like a badass. The decent to the upper Chimney Beach parking area is an amazing finish to what was likely a great ride with amazing views. The valley to your left drops away as you climb up and through a shallow waterfall.

The final chute has a perfect natural double jump in it to give the extra bit of gnar to make you feel like a badass. Lots of branches. Immediately the trail drops into medium rollers and doubles, winding it's way back down the mountain with steep downhills, and a brief rolling climb. The lower half features two rock drops including reef drop which is the largest rock drop and Highland and. There is no preferred direction and the trail is a great connector for several other fun loops. This is a shuttle access downhill trail that is suitable for all ages and multiple different bike styles- although best suited for all mountain, dirtjumper or full on DH bikes. Pretty dry and fast. Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. Amazing views of Castle valley are afforded after 50 meters of riding. At almost 20 miles with almost everything tahoe has to offer.

Sight lines are fantastic and the flow is amazing. Trail contains a rope-suspended ladder bridge, elevated bridges and a long-straight skinny. after the jump you will enter the trail between two trees (fairly close together). The area can be accessed from the end of Densmore's Lane, the end of Old Petty Harbour Road and from Huntingdale Drive. High elevation trails are clear May-October, bring plenty of water. The trail ends with some nice berms at the bottom. Small tree down between bottom of trail and bridge crossing. This trail has big sized jumps in it, very fast and dry! You can ride around everything, which will give you a chance to look before you leap. Having gotten that out of the way, the Mana Road ride is absolutely beautiful and worth the ride.

Well built jump line with wooden lips built into each jump. Starts off flowy with some good jumps then gets into more technical rock gardens. Although it's not technical there are plenty of opportunities to slip in the loose rock and end up with some serious road rash, especially at the speeds you'll be going on the downhills! This trail can be ridden as a loop, or could be ridden as an out-in-back. The upper half is more technical with lots of rocks and a step up onto a boulder. Normally most of the hikers don't make it to Otero Upper so that section is a little more clear and you can let it hang out a little more. A long, long, did I mention long? Fire road that circles Mauna Kea. Super loose after second intersection. Continue pedaling up through the dark forest around small bands of shale-laden cliffs. Only about 25% of the trail is good to ride.

The trails all run parallel to the Fountain Place paved road so they can be shuttled by car. I'm slow and a little chicken top hit some of the gap jumps but this was super fun. The decent to the upper Chimney Beach parking area is an amazing finish to what was likely a great ride with amazing views. 3. This trail is known for its flow. An awesome descent, with some high speed ripping at the top, some root drops in the middle, and some great bank turns at the bottom. There are actually three trails which make up the loop: Horse Creek-Cattle Creek-Lower Twin Lake. After a few bends in the trail you'll get through this section and then start hear the waterfalls in another giant valley that you'll ride above. Fast transitions and high berms help with the turns. I'm slow and a little chicken top hit some of the gap jumps but this was super fun.

Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. They can be ridden in the winter depending on snow conditions. More branches down and seems they are often in bad spots, i.e. landings. Only about 25% of the trail is good to ride. The trails have a decidedly old school vibe with lots of rocks, roots, tight turns and steep pitches and are sure to keep even the most experienced riders on their toes. Great trail, with amazing views, but may see a lot of traffic. This ridge is more rugged than the other two ridges. Wait a few days after any fresh snowfall and the entire area becomes one giant freeride trail after all the shredders pack down the powder. Lost Lake starts at its namesake trailhead. Awesome with a couple really dry spots in corners.

Pretty dry and fast. Great trail, with amazing views, but may see a lot of traffic. There is no preferred direction and the trail is a great connector for several other fun loops. Several high speed, low risk sections take you down the sandy open trail for some of the most fun downhills in the area. Brief passing showers are keeping it wet but the sun and wind are trying. It doesn't get much use though so is sometimes a bit overgrown. For many mountain bikers and equestrians, this is their favorite trail or at least in their top three. Perfect flow day with hard moist dirt with only 1/2 bird baths along the way! Rowdy little downhill/freeride track. Lots of Flow!

It is not hard to get to and is very fun to ride. The valley to your left drops away as you climb up and through a shallow waterfall. Rowdy little downhill/freeride track. Formerly smooth as glass, it has taken on a very natural character with lots of rollers to soak up or jump. Clear Creek Trail is a fun single track that traverses the hills between Jack's Valley Rd and Highway 50. The decent is even more steep and exposed. This is a fun flowy trail! Narrow in places and twisty througout, this leg churner is sure to keep you on you toes. You now have to ride down an asphalt trail and cut off onto a gravel trail before getting back to the old single track. Freeze-thaw cycle isn't awful, but does make this trail rather slick.

You'll be traveling right along side and only a few inches above a tiny creek. Proper sized jumps, berms, rollers and wooden features, so sick! Formerly smooth as glass, it has taken on a very natural character with lots of rollers to soak up or jump. Starts pretty mellow, then gets steeper and has a few drops. Other features include rock garden (that is rutted on the outer edges because XC peeps avoid it), skinny with twists and some other short elevated bridges. Blast down Ridgeline all the way to Lake Imaging Road. The trails all run parallel to the Fountain Place paved road so they can be shuttled by car. Do not ride when wet and not if you are not a skilled rider. From Lake Imaging Road it is a steady but not steep climb to the high point just before the intersection with Hooker Creek Trail. After a very quick downhill out of the gate, the route climbs up through big forest.

It doesn't get much use though so is sometimes a bit overgrown. Then it is a gradual descent or flat on to the end of the trail at Hickory Mountain Road and Hickory Mountain Loop. Most climbs are of the paved/fireroad variety, most descents are a mix of loose rock, fixed rock, and good dirt. This line is my preferred line coming down. You can ride around everything, which will give you a chance to look before you leap. An awesome descent, with some high speed ripping at the top, some root drops in the middle, and some great bank turns at the bottom. It can be accessed from the base at Old Fort Picnic Grounds or the base of the upper climb. This created a reroute of the single track. This trail can be sandy during dry summer months and is best after rain, in the spring or fall. The trails have a decidedly old school vibe with lots of rocks, roots, tight turns and steep pitches and are sure to keep even the most experienced riders on their toes.

It has a number of blind LH corners so whistle or use a bell so you can alert anyone coming the opposite way. Awesome trail. I prefer clockwise because the descent is longer. All hits are roll-able and built for progressing your jumping skillz. Great conditions today. Great views over the valley. The trail has good flow with some spicy sections. Watch that you don't overshoot the switchback to stay on the black diamond descent - the blue route is completely overgrown. Also you exit onto a trail where hikers frequent, so keep it under control here. The route begins at the end of Quid Pro Flow and an intersection with Three Thirty Eight.

Third Divide makes up part of the classic Downieville downhill route. Unfortunately, the lake-side trail has a hike-a-bike section in the middle. Rose meadows and finishing with this trail. The trail can ridden in an hour non stop, but most people take multiple hours to session the various steps and drops and take photos of the World famous views of Castle Valley. This trail can be sandy during dry summer months and is best after rain, in the spring or fall. From the young (or not so young) beginner, to the downhill pro, a flow trail delivers smiles for riders of all ages and skill level. An awesome descent, with some high speed ripping at the top, some root drops in the middle, and some great bank turns at the bottom. Some wettness, but new sections are well drained and very good. All hits are roll-able and built for progressing your jumping skillz. Some wettness, but new sections are well drained and very good.

Fun! The trail starts with a test- a skinny with a 2 ft. The trail tread is mostly packed dirt mixed with rocks. Third Divide makes up part of the classic Downieville downhill route. This route is worth riding MANY times. The area can be accessed from the end of Densmore's Lane, the end of Old Petty Harbour Road and from Huntingdale Drive. Highly advise starting from the Mt. At the bottom the trail joins Hide and Seek above a major creek crossing. Clear and dry. Small tree down between bottom of trail and bridge crossing.

The valley to your left drops away as you climb up and through a shallow waterfall. The decent is even more steep and exposed. Lots of branches. Continue pedaling up through the dark forest around small bands of shale-laden cliffs. Super loose after second intersection. The bottom portion of the trail is fast, loose and tight. I need to learn how to jump! There is an optional drop 1/2 way down. I prefer clockwise because the descent is longer. For the ultimate downhill blast, ride to the top of Hickory Mountain Loop, take a minute to catch your breath and prepare to smile all the way to the parking lot, barely needing to pedal.

From there the trail stretches out and travels pretty fast into a big berm with a view out into the valley. The main bike trail is about 18KM long with a gentle -5% grade. A long, long, did I mention long? Fire road that circles Mauna Kea. Mostly dry with some small mud puddles. Let me begin by recommending you don't do this ride unless you're pretty confident in your fitness. Narrow in places and twisty througout, this leg churner is sure to keep you on you toes. Check your speed before rumbling over the wet armored section that make a tight right hand turn into a bridge. Lots of opportunities for big air. Plenty of kick ups, jumps, drops, and huge berms. The flowiest trails of the mountain!

3. Mostly dry with some small mud puddles. Two wheel drifting is likely if you have speed but are not riding the top few inches of the berms. Starts off flowy with some good jumps then gets into more technical rock gardens. Long pedal up form town but best when shuttled to the top. Several high speed, low risk sections take you down the sandy open trail for some of the most fun downhills in the area. Sadly, a better trail in this same zone (Barney Lake) is designated wilderness and is therefore 'unlawful' to ride. Great views over the valley. Several high speed, low risk sections take you down the sandy open trail for some of the most fun downhills in the area. Perfect flow day with hard moist dirt with only 1/2 bird baths along the way!

Drop in off a shallow rock slab and then whip through a few tight berms. If you continue, the trail ends at one of the lakes and continues lakeside until reaching the point where you began the trail The lake-side bit is fairly technical and very fun. Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. Have fun and hang on tight! Also you exit onto a trail where hikers frequent, so keep it under control here. Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. There is some pedalling but no uphill sections. The bottom portion of the trail is fast, loose and tight. Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. Landings are getting a little rotted but the overall condition is good.

Logs embedded in the trail have been installed to signal technical terrain. Narrow in places and twisty througout, this leg churner is sure to keep you on you toes. Big downed tree near the end of Lower Black. Out here you will find the most legal features including log rides, jumps and rock rolls in South Tahoe including the new jumps, berms, rollers and hips TAMBA and SBTS built in 2014. The exposed rock section near the bottom is a highlight of the trail giving the exposed granite slabs of Squamish a run for their money. The trail ends with some nice berms at the bottom. Kitsuma is a point to point singletrack trail that has a machine groomed tread in most parts. Check your speed before rumbling over the wet armored section that make a tight right hand turn into a bridge. Awesome with a couple really dry spots in corners. This is the most fun direction to ride it.

I need to learn how to jump! Out of the parking lot, take your first left. This is optional, but recommended way to test how prepared you are for the trail ahead. A trail & parking area reconstruction project completed in July '17. This new trail flows well and has multiple banked berms and small jumps that wind down the mountainside. The ending is real rutted out, so be careful not to lock up your tire and make it worse. A super fun freeride trail starting with the Pinkbike drop, an impressive 12' by 12' drop followed non stop features with lots of speed and perfect flow. The route begins at the end of Quid Pro Flow and an intersection with Three Thirty Eight. Tree down near southern trail head. Gnarly trail.

Tree down near southern trail head. This trail has big sized jumps in it, very fast and dry! All hits are roll-able and built for progressing your jumping skillz. Unpacked snow and mud throughout. Some of the densely covered trails are damp, but still rideable. I need to learn how to jump! Logs are gone! Or with only moderate climbing involved these trails can keep almost anyone interested for hours. 3. From here the trail narrows and skirts a rocky hillside.

There will be some short dismount sections for most riders, but overall, the trail is fast and fun. Lost Lake starts at its namesake trailhead. Gets dry in the summer. This trail has big sized jumps in it, very fast and dry! Out here you will find the most legal features including log rides, jumps and rock rolls in South Tahoe including the new jumps, berms, rollers and hips TAMBA and SBTS built in 2014. The end of the jump line trail there is a fairly steep climb to get to the next section. The trail has good flow with some spicy sections. Lots of Flow! Logs are gone! Lots of Flow!

Kitsuma is a point to point singletrack trail that has a machine groomed tread in most parts. This is optional, but recommended way to test how prepared you are for the trail ahead. This trail can be ridden as a loop, or could be ridden as an out-in-back. There is some pedalling but no uphill sections. Greens Lick is a machine built trail designed by Trail Dynamics as a demonstration trail showing the forest service how eroded road beds could be converted to sustainable trail. Probably not best to ride. Rocks for texture, obstacles for fun and some short fast downhils in this 2. The main bike trail is about 18KM long with a gentle -5% grade. From Lake Imaging Road it is a steady but not steep climb to the high point just before the intersection with Hooker Creek Trail. The area can be accessed from the end of Densmore's Lane, the end of Old Petty Harbour Road and from Huntingdale Drive.

Better yet, don't do it unless other people are pretty confident in your fitness. Very windy so drying fast. The objectives of this project are to promote mountain biking by creating a progressive trail that can be enjoyed by riders of all ages and ability level, and to increase the diversity of riding opportunities, demonstrate innovative and sustainable trail building design and techniques, and provide a model for other land managers for similar types of projects. Clear Creek Trail is a fun single track that traverses the hills between Jack's Valley Rd and Highway 50. It can be accessed from the base at Old Fort Picnic Grounds or the base of the upper climb. The flowiest trails of the mountain! The trails have a decidedly old school vibe with lots of rocks, roots, tight turns and steep pitches and are sure to keep even the most experienced riders on their toes. The main bike trail is about 18KM long with a gentle -5% grade. Rocks for texture, obstacles for fun and some short fast downhils in this 2. The start of the dirt road is marked on the Google Map directions on this page.

This area has a high density of trails for all ability levels and serves as the unofficial hub of mountain bike activity in the South Shore. Big downed tree near the end of Lower Black. A super fun freeride trail starting with the Pinkbike drop, an impressive 12' by 12' drop followed non stop features with lots of speed and perfect flow. Awesome with a couple really dry spots in corners. They can be ridden in the winter depending on snow conditions. Immediately the trail drops into medium rollers and doubles, winding it's way back down the mountain with steep downhills, and a brief rolling climb. There is an optional drop 1/2 way down. One of the best rides in all of tahoe. This area has a high density of trails for all ability levels and serves as the unofficial hub of mountain bike activity in the South Shore. Dirt was pretty good, not too mushy yet, but the leaves on the trail are wet and very slick, a few corners were like riding on ice.

From Lake Imaging Road it is a steady but not steep climb to the high point just before the intersection with Hooker Creek Trail. It is steep. Let me begin by recommending you don't do this ride unless you're pretty confident in your fitness. Normally most of the hikers don't make it to Otero Upper so that section is a little more clear and you can let it hang out a little more. Other features include rock garden (that is rutted on the outer edges because XC peeps avoid it), skinny with twists and some other short elevated bridges. Please watch your speed on this portion though as this is a popular destination for hikers as well. A super fun freeride trail starting with the Pinkbike drop, an impressive 12' by 12' drop followed non stop features with lots of speed and perfect flow. There is some pedalling but no uphill sections. This is optional, but recommended way to test how prepared you are for the trail ahead. Fast and flowing with big jump options and some pretty crazy gap jumps.

The trail ends with some nice berms at the bottom. Proper sized jumps, berms, rollers and wooden features, so sick! Fun transitions and some great little rock drops. The end of the jump line trail there is a fairly steep climb to get to the next section. Sadly, a better trail in this same zone (Barney Lake) is designated wilderness and is therefore 'unlawful' to ride. Riders need to be at a decent skill level to attempt this trail. Trail full of berms and fun features! This trail is the cherry on top when riding Porcupine rim! The lower half features two rock drops including reef drop which is the largest rock drop and Highland and. Other features include rock garden (that is rutted on the outer edges because XC peeps avoid it), skinny with twists and some other short elevated bridges.